README.md, before:

# KumuluzEE Discovery
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/kumuluz/kumuluzee-discovery/master.svg?style=flat)](https://travis-ci.org/kumuluz/kumuluzee-discovery)

> Service discovery extension for the KumuluzEE microservice framework. Service registration, service discovery and client side load balancing with full support for Docker and Kubernetes cluster.

KumuluzEE Discovery is a service discovery extension for the KumuluzEE microservice framework. It provides support for service registration, service discovery and client side load balancing.
KumuluzEE Discovery provides full support for microservices packed as Docker containers. It also provides full support for executing microservices in clusters and cloud-native platforms with full support for Kubernetes. 
KumuluzEE Discovery has been designed to support modularity with pluggable service discovery frameworks. Currently, etcd is supported. In the future, other discovery frameworks will be supported too (contributions are welcome).

## Usage

You can enable etcd service discovery by adding the following dependency:
```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.kumuluz.ee.discovery</groupId>
    <artifactId>kumuluzee-discovery-etcd</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

#### Configuring etcd 

Etcd is configured with the common KumuluzEE configuration framework. Configuration properties can be defined with the environment variables or in the configuration file. For more details see the 
[KumuluzEE configuration wiki page](https://github.com/kumuluz/kumuluzee/wiki/Configuration).

To enable service registration using etcd, an odd number of etcd hosts should be specified with the configuration key `kumuluzee.config.etcd.hosts` in the following format
`'http://192.168.99.100:2379,http://192.168.99.101:2379,http://192.168.99.102:2379'`.

In etcd key-value store, services are registered following this schema:
- key: `/environments/'environment'/services/'serviceName'/'serviceVersion'/instances/'automaticallyGeneratedInstanceId'/url`, 
e.g. `/environments/dev/services/my-service/v0.01/instances/1491983746019/url`
- value: service URL, e.g `http://localhost:8080`

**Security**

Etcd can be configured to support user authentication and client-to-server transport security with HTTPS. To access 
authentication-enabled etcd host, username and password have to be defined with configuration keys 
`kumuluzee.config.etcd.username` and `kumuluzee.config.etcd.password`. To enable transport security, follow 
https://coreos.com/etcd/docs/latest/op-guide/security.html 
To access HTTPS-enabled etcd host, PEM certificate string has to be defined with the configuration key `kumuluzee.config.etcd.ca`.

Example of YAML configuration:

```yaml
kumuluzee:
  env: test
  version: 1.2.3
  base-url: http://localhost:8081
  port: 8081
  discovery:
    etcd:
      hosts: http://127.0.0.1:2379
    ttl: 30
    ping-interval: 5
```

### Service registration

To register a service, service URL has to be provided with the configuration key `kumuluzee.base-url` in the following format 
`http://localhost:8080`. 

KumuluzEE Discovery supports registration of multiple different versions of a service in different environments. The environment can be set with 
the configuration key `kumuluzee.env`, the default value is `dev`. Service version can also be set with the configuration key 
`kumuluzee.version`, the default value is `1.0.0`.

Automatic service registration is enabled with the annotation `@RegisterService` on the REST application class (that extends 
`javax.ws.rs.core.Application`). The annotation takes six parameters:

- value: service name. Default value is fully classified class name.
- ttl: time to live of a registration key in the store. Default value is 30 seconds.
- pingInterval: an interval in which service updates registration key value in the store. Default value is 20.
- environment: environment in which service is registered. Default value is "dev".
- version: version of service to be registered. Default value is "1.0.0".
- singleton: if true ensures, that only one instance of service with the same name, version and environment is
registered. Default value is false.

Example of service registration:
```java
@RegisterService(value = "my-service", ttl = 20, pingInterval = 15, environment = "test", version = "1.0.0", singleton = false)
@ApplicationPath("/v1")
public class RestApplication extends Application {
}
```

### Service discovery

Service discovery is implemented by injecting fields with the annotation `@DiscoverService`, which takes three parameters:

- value: name of the service we want to inject.
- environment: service environment, e.g. prod, dev, test. If value is not provided, environment is set to the value 
defined with the configuration key `kumuluzee.env`. If the configuration key is not present, value is set to `dev`.
- version: service version or NPM version range. Default value is "*", which resolves to the highest deployed 
version (see chapter [NPM-like versioning](#npm-versioning)).

Injection is supported for the following field types:

- URL
- String
- WebTarget

Example of service discovery in JAX-RS bean:
```java
@RequestScoped
@Path("/")
@Produces(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
@Consumes(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
public class TestResource {

    @Inject
    @DiscoverService(value = "my-service", environment = "test", version = "1.0.0")
    private URL url;

    @Inject
    @DiscoverService(value = "my-service", environment = "test", version = "1.0.0")
    private String urlString;

    @Inject
    @DiscoverService(value = "my-service", environment = "test", version = "1.0.0")
    private WebTarget webTarget;

}
```

**<a name="npm-versioning"></a>NPM-like versioning**

Etcd supports NPM-like versioning. If service is registered with version in
NPM format, it can be discovered using a NPM range.
Some examples:

- "*" would discover the latest version in NPM format, registered with etcd
- "^1.0.4" would discover the latest minor version in NPM format, registered with etcd
- "~1.0.4" would discover the latest patch version in NPM format, registered with etcd


For more information see [NPM semver documentation](http://docs.npmjs.com/misc/semver).

### Cluster, cloud-native platforms and Kubernetes

KumuluzEE Discovery is fully compatible with clusters and cloud-native platforms. It has been extensively tested with Kubernetes.
If you are running your services in cluster (for example Kubernetes), you should specify the cluster id in the
configuration key `kumuluzee.discovery.cluster`. Cluster id should be the same for every service running in the same
cluster.

Services running in the same cluster will be discovered by their container IP. Services accessing your service from
outside the cluster will discover your service by its base url (`kumuluzee.baseurl`).

Container IP is automatically acquired when you run the service.
If you want to override it, you can do so by specifying configuration key `kumuluzee.containerurl`.

## Changelog

Recent changes can be viewed on Github on the [Releases Page](https://github.com/kumuluz/kumuluzee/releases)

## Contribute

See the [contributing docs](https://github.com/kumuluz/kumuluzee-discovery/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

When submitting an issue, please follow the 
[guidelines](https://github.com/kumuluz/kumuluzee-discovery/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#bugs).

When submitting a bugfix, write a test that exposes the bug and fails before applying your fix. Submit the test alongside the fix.

When submitting a new feature, add tests that cover the feature.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Added support for gateway URLs

README.md, after:

# KumuluzEE Discovery
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/kumuluz/kumuluzee-discovery/master.svg?style=flat)](https://travis-ci.org/kumuluz/kumuluzee-discovery)

> Service discovery extension for the KumuluzEE microservice framework. Service registration, service discovery and client side load balancing with full support for Docker and Kubernetes cluster.

KumuluzEE Discovery is a service discovery extension for the KumuluzEE microservice framework. It provides support for service registration, service discovery and client side load balancing.
KumuluzEE Discovery provides full support for microservices packed as Docker containers. It also provides full support for executing microservices in clusters and cloud-native platforms with full support for Kubernetes. 
KumuluzEE Discovery has been designed to support modularity with pluggable service discovery frameworks. Currently, etcd is supported. In the future, other discovery frameworks will be supported too (contributions are welcome).

## Usage

You can enable etcd service discovery by adding the following dependency:
```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.kumuluz.ee.discovery</groupId>
    <artifactId>kumuluzee-discovery-etcd</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

#### Configuring etcd 

Etcd is configured with the common KumuluzEE configuration framework. Configuration properties can be defined with the environment variables or in the configuration file. For more details see the 
[KumuluzEE configuration wiki page](https://github.com/kumuluz/kumuluzee/wiki/Configuration).

To enable service registration using etcd, an odd number of etcd hosts should be specified with the configuration key `kumuluzee.config.etcd.hosts` in the following format
`'http://192.168.99.100:2379,http://192.168.99.101:2379,http://192.168.99.102:2379'`.

In etcd key-value store, services are registered following this schema:
- key: `/environments/'environment'/services/'serviceName'/'serviceVersion'/instances/'automaticallyGeneratedInstanceId'/url`, 
e.g. `/environments/dev/services/my-service/v0.01/instances/1491983746019/url`
- value: service URL, e.g `http://localhost:8080`

**Security**

Etcd can be configured to support user authentication and client-to-server transport security with HTTPS. To access 
authentication-enabled etcd host, username and password have to be defined with configuration keys 
`kumuluzee.config.etcd.username` and `kumuluzee.config.etcd.password`. To enable transport security, follow 
https://coreos.com/etcd/docs/latest/op-guide/security.html 
To access HTTPS-enabled etcd host, PEM certificate string has to be defined with the configuration key `kumuluzee.config.etcd.ca`.

Example of YAML configuration:

```yaml
kumuluzee:
  env: test
  version: 1.2.3
  base-url: http://localhost:8081
  port: 8081
  discovery:
    etcd:
      hosts: http://127.0.0.1:2379
    ttl: 30
    ping-interval: 5
```

### Service registration

To register a service, service URL has to be provided with the configuration key `kumuluzee.base-url` in the following format 
`http://localhost:8080`. 

KumuluzEE Discovery supports registration of multiple different versions of a service in different environments. The environment can be set with 
the configuration key `kumuluzee.env`, the default value is `dev`. Service version can also be set with the configuration key 
`kumuluzee.version`, the default value is `1.0.0`.

Automatic service registration is enabled with the annotation `@RegisterService` on the REST application class (that extends 
`javax.ws.rs.core.Application`). The annotation takes six parameters:

- value: service name. Default value is fully classified class name.
- ttl: time to live of a registration key in the store. Default value is 30 seconds.
- pingInterval: an interval in which service updates registration key value in the store. Default value is 20.
- environment: environment in which service is registered. Default value is "dev".
- version: version of service to be registered. Default value is "1.0.0".
- singleton: if true ensures, that only one instance of service with the same name, version and environment is
registered. Default value is false.

Example of service registration:
```java
@RegisterService(value = "my-service", ttl = 20, pingInterval = 15, environment = "test", version = "1.0.0", singleton = false)
@ApplicationPath("/v1")
public class RestApplication extends Application {
}
```

### Service discovery

Service discovery is implemented by injecting fields with the annotation `@DiscoverService`, which takes four parameters:

- value: name of the service we want to inject.
- environment: service environment, e.g. prod, dev, test. If value is not provided, environment is set to the value 
defined with the configuration key `kumuluzee.env`. If the configuration key is not present, value is set to `dev`.
- version: service version or NPM version range. Default value is "*", which resolves to the highest deployed 
version (see chapter [NPM-like versioning](#npm-versioning)).
- accessType: controls, which URL gets injected. Supported values are `AccessType.GATEWAY` and `AccessType.DIRECT`.
Default is `AccessType.GATEWAY`. See chapter [Access Types](#access-types) for more information.

Injection is supported for the following field types:

- URL
- String
- WebTarget

Example of service discovery in JAX-RS bean:
```java
@RequestScoped
@Path("/")
@Produces(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
@Consumes(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
public class TestResource {

    @Inject
    @DiscoverService(value = "my-service", environment = "test", version = "1.0.0")
    private URL url;

    @Inject
    @DiscoverService(value = "my-service", environment = "test", version = "1.0.0")
    private String urlString;

    @Inject
    @DiscoverService(value = "my-service", environment = "test", version = "1.0.0")
    private WebTarget webTarget;

}
```

**<a name="npm-versioning"></a>NPM-like versioning**

Etcd supports NPM-like versioning. If service is registered with version in
NPM format, it can be discovered using a NPM range.
Some examples:

- "*" would discover the latest version in NPM format, registered with etcd
- "^1.0.4" would discover the latest minor version in NPM format, registered with etcd
- "~1.0.4" would discover the latest patch version in NPM format, registered with etcd


For more information see [NPM semver documentation](http://docs.npmjs.com/misc/semver).

**<a name="access-types"></a>Access Types**

Etcd supports two access types:
- `AccessType.GATEWAY` always returns gateway URL, if it is present. If not, behavior is the same as `AccessType.DIRECT`.
- `AccessType.DIRECT` returns base URL or container URL, even if gateway URL is present.

Gateway URL is read from etcd key `/environments/'environment'/services/'serviceName'/'serviceVersion'/gatewayUrl` and
is automatically updated, if value in etcd changes.

### Cluster, cloud-native platforms and Kubernetes

KumuluzEE Discovery is fully compatible with clusters and cloud-native platforms. It has been extensively tested with Kubernetes.
If you are running your services in cluster (for example Kubernetes), you should specify the cluster id in the
configuration key `kumuluzee.discovery.cluster`. Cluster id should be the same for every service running in the same
cluster.

Services running in the same cluster will be discovered by their container IP. Services accessing your service from
outside the cluster will discover your service by its base url (`kumuluzee.baseurl`).

Container IP is automatically acquired when you run the service.
If you want to override it, you can do so by specifying configuration key `kumuluzee.containerurl`.

## Changelog

Recent changes can be viewed on Github on the [Releases Page](https://github.com/kumuluz/kumuluzee/releases)

## Contribute

See the [contributing docs](https://github.com/kumuluz/kumuluzee-discovery/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

When submitting an issue, please follow the 
[guidelines](https://github.com/kumuluz/kumuluzee-discovery/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#bugs).

When submitting a bugfix, write a test that exposes the bug and fails before applying your fix. Submit the test alongside the fix.

When submitting a new feature, add tests that cover the feature.

## License

MIT
